- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll walk through
how a contributor establishes a feature branch
to build out the code changes
required to resolve an issue.
Once the feature branch has been completed,
we'll then see how to integrate that feature branch
with the developed branch as defined
by the GitFlow workflow.
So here we are within GitLab
as a contributor, and we're going to establish
a new feature branch to resolve one of the issues
that our contributor is going to work on,
so there it is, Missing Feature A.
We're gonna drill down into that issue
and here you'll see this dropdown.
We can click on that, and we can use the dropdown
to create a new feature branch.
You'll see that GitLab provides us
with a default branch name that contains
the issue number and the name of the issue.
The next part's pretty important.
It's asking us to define the branch
that we would like to use
as far as the source for our new feature branch,
so we're going to branch off of develop.
That's important.
When we build feature branches in GitFlow,
it's always off of the develop branch.
So we'll go ahead, click on create branch,
and at this point, if we look at the branches
in our repository, you'll see that we have
our new feature branch.
Now I'm going to head to the project
and I'll grab the URL for the repository,
and this is so we can head over to the terminal
and perform the work as the contributor
of building out our new feature.
So what I'll do is I will clone the repository,
so I'll paste in that URL.
It's going to ask us for credentials
and we'll provide those of the contributor,
and now we have the repository.
Now that we've cloned the repository,
we'll now change the directory
into the new repository
and from here, we can take a look
at all the branches that are available.
You'll see that we have the new feature branch,
so what I'll do is
create a new local branch
for the feature branch,
and this is where we're going to do all of our work.
Inside the branch, I'm going to create
a new file named feature list,
and inside this file, we're just going to add a feature,
and then we're going to write the file,
and at this point, we can then add the file
to the local repository, and then we'll commit
and take a look at this commit message.
I'm going to use the word fix,
and then specify the issue number.
That's going to be important later,
that special syntax for GitLab,
because when GitLab sees something like closes,
close, fix, fixes, it's an indicator
to the repository manager that it should
look for the issue number following that keyword,
and move the status of that issue,
so we're basically indicating to GitLab
via the commit message that we're going to
fix issue number one.
Okay, so we got that in place, let's make our commit,
and then we're going to push to
the remote repository our feature branch,
and I'll use dash u, so we set up the track changes,
and then we provide the credentials of the contributor,
and now if we head over
to GitLab,
and we take a look
within our merge request section, you're going to see
that GitLab does something really nice for us.
It picks up a change on the missing
Feature A feature branch, and it says hey,
would you like to create a merge request?
And it gives us this convenient option.
So we can click on that and it builds out a title for us,
and it provides a quick description
so we'll go ahead and assign this merge request
to a maintainer so they know they have some work
that they need to merge into develop,
and then this is really important.
You see it's defaulting to merge the changes
from the feature branch into master.
That's not what we want to do.
Within the GitFlow workflow, we always merge
from a feature branch back into master.
So we need to set up develop as our target branch
and the feature branch as our source branch.
So with that in place, we can go ahead
and compare the branches and continue,
and then if we scroll down we can see the commits
that will be in this merge request,
and we can go ahead and submit it.
And then if we take a look, you'll see the merge request
now shows up in the queue,
and it's there for a maintainer to work.
If we drill down into that merge request,
you'll notice that the contributor
doesn't have the power to merge it into develop.
That privilege is reserved for the maintainer
as defined by GitFlow.
So here we saw how to create a new feature branch
off of an issue, perform some work in that branch,
and then pull it back into the central repository
and create a request for a maintainer
to pull that code into the developed branch.